# Brain-Tumor-Detection


#About
A brain tumor is one of the major causes of death among other types of cancers. Proper and timely diagnosis can prevent the life of a person to some extent. We used Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging for this project. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is widely used by physicians in order to determine the existence of tumors or the specification of the tumors. The qualification of brain cancer treatment depends on the physician’s experience and knowledge. Therefore we have proposed an automated reliable system for the diagnosis of the brain tumor. The proposed system is a system for brain tumor diagnosis. First, noise removal is performed as the pre-processing step on the brain MR images. Texture features are extracted from these noise-free brain MR images. The next phase of the proposed system is Self-organizing Mapping based feature training and followed by the CNN based classification that is based on these extracted features. More than 91% of accuracy is achieved by the classification phase. The results of the proposed technique show that tumor images are recognized quite accurately. This technique has been tested against the datasets of different patients received from a medical organization. There are different stages: pre-processing, segmentation, feature extraction & classification using a Convolutional neural network. A brief description of each step is given in further discussion. In GUI, the user selects an image or file with DICOM or JPG Extention and upload it into the database. In the following, when the user clicks on the Detect button then a pop-up shows the classification with the uploaded image. For this GUI, we used the Django framework and HTML/CSS.
